# Patternify.NullObject

This source generator simplifies the implementation of the **Null Object** design pattern in C#. It automatically generates a default, "do nothing" implementation of an interface, helping you avoid null reference exceptions and redundant null checks in your code.

## Features

- Automatically generates a Null Object implementation for interfaces.
- Reduces the need for null checks, promoting cleaner, safer code.
- Simple and easy-to-use with a single attribute.

## How to Use

### Step 1: Apply the `[NullObject]` Attribute

To generate a Null Object for an interface, apply the `[NullObject]` attribute to the interface. 

Example:

```csharp
[NullObject]
public interface ILog
{
    public int Id { get; }
    public string Login(string username, string password);
    public void Info(string message);
    public void Warn(string message);
}
```

### Step 2: Let the Generator Do the Work

The generator will automatically create a class that implements the `ILog` interface with default "do nothing" behavior.

Generated code:

```csharp
// <auto-generated/>
using DesignPatternCodeGenerator.Attributes.NullObject;

namespace Samples.NullObject
{
    public class LogNullObject : ILog
    {
        public int Id { get; }

        public void Info(string message) { }

        public void Warn(string message) { }

        public string Login(string username, string password) 
        {
            return default(string);
        }
    }
}
```
### Step 3: Use the Null Object

You can now safely use the generated `LogNullObject` class as a default implementation when an instance of `ILog` is expected, without the need for null checks.

Generated code:

```csharp
ILog logger = new LogNullObject();
logger.Info("This will do nothing safely.");
```

### Installation

To use this source generator in your project, add the NuGet package to your project:

```bash
dotnet add package Patternify.NullObject
```

### Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have ideas for improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
